---
layout: post
title: "[AWS] Amazon Identity Manager IAM"
author: "Carlos Requena"
locale: en_EN
lang: en
ref: aws-iam
keywords: AWS, IAM
tags: "[AWS] Amazon Web Services"

---

<span style="color:red">**“The real tragedy of the poor is the poverty of their aspirations.”**</span>
<span style="color:black;font-weight: bold">--Adam Smith.</span>

# AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) 
Is a web service that helps you securely control access to AWS resources. You use IAM to control who is authenticated (signed in) and authorized (has permissions) 
to use resources. IAM allows you to manage users and their level of access to the aws console.

## IAM Key terminology

*   **Users** End user such as people, employees of an organization, etc.    
*   **Groups** A collection of users. Each user in the group will inherit the permissions of the group.  
*   **Policies** Policies are made of documents, called policy documents. These documents are in JSON format and they give permissions as to what a user/group is able
to do.  
*   **Roles** You create roles a then assign them to AWS resources.

## IAM Tips

*   IAM is universal. It does not apply to regions at this time.
*   The root account is simply the account created when first setup your AWS account. It has complete admin access.
*   New users has NO permissions when first created.
*   New users are assigned and Access Key and an Secret Key when first created.
*   You cannot use the access key and the secret key to login into the console.
*   You can view the access key and the secret key once, if you lose it you have to regenerate them.
*   Always set up Multifactor Authentication especially for the root account.
*   You can create and customise your own password rotation policies.
